# motiv_api_data_analysis
Author: Sushant Vema

Analysis Software for Motiv API Queries. An object-oriented EDA system to work with Motiv API results.

## Setup
Install required packages and dependencies with 
```python
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Data
This package prevents .csv files from being committed to git. Make sure to add `load_RANDOM_NAME.csv` and `pv_RANDOM_NAME.csv` to `motiv_data/data_we_gave_to_motiv/`

It's important to have "load" and "pv" be the first words of the file titles respectively. 

## Running
Run the script on the command line with 
```bash
python analysis.py motiv_data
```

Running this command assumes you have setup `motiv_data/` as per above.

## Expected Behavior
After executing, this script will create 

This script will:
1. Take synthetic csv files with load and pv inputs and match them to the appropriate API response JSON according to nearest-minute matching with timestamps. 
2. Standardize all datetimes to UTC (PST+8)
3. Scrape the most relevant single measurement from each subheading of the API response JSON. Here's a mapping of what is currently being queried out of the JSON dump as well as a subjective interpretation of units, etc:
    - ChargeDischargeCounter -> (DischargeCount, ChargeCount) 
        - Counting how many times the battery is charging or discharging?
    - 1MinPVAverager -> Averager
        - Assuming the units of Averager is W
    - BatteryMeter -> ACPowerWattsSigned
        - Signed 3-phase real power in watts
    - PrimaryGridMeter -> ACPowerWattsSigned
        - Signed 3-phase real power in watts
    - ArbiterPower -> SystemDirectorPowerRequest
        - Assuming this means the facility's demand from the grid. Therefore this might be the total facility load??
    - PVChargeLimiter -> PVChargeLimitWatts
        - Maximum power generation setpoint for solar?
    - PVMeter -> ACPowerWattsSigned
        - Signed 3-phase real power in watts generated by PV
    - Distributer1 -> AvailableCapacityWattHours
        - Not sure what this means. Some sort of storage? 
    - GEM100 -> StateOfCharge
        - Percentage between 0 and 100 to represent battery capacity
    - MaxAvgGrid -> MaxAverage
        - Some number in watts I think that represents the max grid something in a 1? minute interval.
    - 1MinBatteryAverager -> Averager
        - Similar concept to 1MinPVAverage. Assuming the units is watts
    - DemandManagement1 -> ClippingLevel
        - No clue what this means
    - 15MinGridAverager -> Averager
        - Somewhat similar concept to the other averager. Seems like a very big magnitude number, so not sure about this. Probably in watts. 
    - 1MinGridLessBatteryAverager -> (GridLessBatteryAverage, LoadAverage)
        - A tuple with those values. Not sure how to interpret this either.
4. Create insightful visualizations.
    1. Work in progress as per the #memosa channel message on 11/29. 